Today is the anniversary day of the wedding,
and I have allowed them to celebrate it,
because marriage is very important in Sahaja Yoga.
It is one of the most important things for Sahaja Yoga,
that one should get married.
Firstly marriage always gives you a balance of understanding,
if you have proper ideas about marriage.
If you have funny ideas
and if you are just marrying for fun's sake
and you do not understand the value of marriage,
then it is just a joke, it's not a marriage.
But in Sahaja Yoga you really understand
the value of marriage first of all, what it means.
And then, luckily today we are going to have
some Sahaja Yoga weddings in which you will see, how we try
to conform to the divine laws of marriage,
and get married under those laws.
Here, I find in Australia, as well as in other countries,
that marriage has lost its sanctity.
People don't understand that by doing sin against the marriage,
they are committing such great sins
that many generations will have to suffer for this kind of a thing.
One has to understand that fidelity is the basis of marriage.
If there is no fidelity, marriage has no meaning.
If you are not capable of being fidel,
that means you are not yet a human being.
A human being has to be a fidel animal.
In marriage we confirm that the problem is over now,
we have finished with the choices we had,
and now we are going to settle down with one person.
And the sharing of life,
the even absolutely private life, is with one person.
So you have to be very much harmonised with that person,
and in complete understanding
and loyalties to each other, one has to take to.
Now the marriage is for the reproduction of the species as they say.
Now as you are another species,
you are Sahaja Yogis, it’s a new awareness,
marriages between you will bring forth
children of very high caliber.
There are great saints who are anxious to get married,
to get birth on this Earth.
And if they find good Sahaja Yogis,
husband and wife who love each other, are good,
progressive people in Sahaja Yoga,
who are dedicated to Sahaja Yoga,
they would be definitely descending on this Earth through you.
So it is very important and imminent, at this time,
that one should understand the value,
the value of the marriage of Sahaja Yoga.
So many marriages have taken place before also,
but what is the validity
or what is the credibility of those marriages,
when the person who marries them in the name of God
is not a realised soul?
He has to be a realised soul to marry them.
He has no authority to marry in the name of God.
Alright, registration is a different thing altogether
because they do not marry in the name of God,
they marry in the name of a nation.
But if you have to marry in the name of God,
you must have a realised soul to do that.
And one should understand every bit of the marriage
that is performed, what you are doing, why you are doing.
There are certain promises that are to be given.
We have taken this marriage system from the old Vedic system,
also changed it very much according to the Sahaja Yoga,
where we have been trying to use also certain ceremonies
which are done in the churches and other religions,
but mainly it is based on the Kundalini.
So the promise is to the fire.
In this marriage the promise is to the fire.
Because fire is the one that burns off all that is ugly.
And Kundalini is also like a fire on one point,
because that’s the only energy that rises above.
See, so like the fire goes upward, the Kundalini also rises upwards.
That’s why it is compared with the fire.
But fire is the energy which is in the stomach,
which is the dharma, which is the religion.
And the religion of the Sahaja Yogis is to keep in the centre,
not to go to extremes. And when they get married,
by their understanding of Sahaja Yoga
they pull each other towards the centre much more,
and enjoy themselves, the present, the present moment,
and the present as it is.
Sahaja Yoga marriages can be really fantastic,
if the Sahaja Yogis who marry are sensible,
are equally balanced, or are not criticising each other,
not taking an upper hand.
It is possible for one Sahaja Yogi to marry another one,
to gradually upgrade that Sahaja Yogi.
It is possible also to degrade.
If another Sahaja Yogi is more powerful
or negative so much that it can degrade also another person.
It depends on your quality to be upgraded or degraded.
So marriage is a very big blessing in Sahaja Yoga
because all the Gods
and all the angels are watching these marriages,
and they will see to it that these marriages are successful.
But if you are bent upon making them unsuccessful
because you still have the same kind of an awareness
which you had before and you want to go to the same,
it can fail also. Like animals.
If you live with the animals,
even human beings can become like animals.
So the Sahaja Yogis must know that their awareness is changed,
they are different people,
they have to live with Sahaja Yogis and not with
other human beings who are not yet realised.
They can talk to them, but they must know that
Sahaja Yogis are at a very different level of awareness.
If they realise this point, if they understand this simple point,
that their awareness is very different,
they would adjust much better in married life.
There's no divorce in Sahaja Yoga.
We do not think of a divorce. But there's nothing forced.
I mean, if they fail to live together,
it’s a shame, but so far we have had no divorces.
But as the people are coming from every sort of culture and things,
there is a possibility, that people may like to divorce legally.
But in Sahaja Yoga there is nothing like divorce,
but there's no force on anyone.
And one must try to understand marriage,
that it is for your enjoyment.
If you cannot enjoy the marriage
then it is of no use to you.
In Sahaja Yoga it is to be ensured that people enjoy their marriages
and live very well, happily, with each other.
It is the responsibility of all the people in Sahaja Yoga.
But say in my case, own case, my husband was not a realised soul,
nor did he understood realisation, nor was he a seeker.
Despite all these…
It would like to come to Me, it was sitting in my lap throughout.
…And despite all that, you see, I didn’t get upset or anything,
I didn’t push him. I didn’t push anyone.
I said, "Gradually he will be able to see it through."
So even if the person, another person is not a realised soul,
one can manage it very well, and can live very happily.
But in case you get both the people realised,
then it's a much better thing and should be enjoyed.
But the interest should be in Sahaja Yoga.
If you have other interest then there could be problems.
Because a Sahaja Yogi could not tolerate his wife
or a Sahaja Yogini would not tolerate her husband
to waste his energy on nonsensical things.
And a new sort of a conflict will start between Sahaja Yoga
and the Sahaja Yogis and Sahaja Yoginis.
So it should never be a matter of conflict,
because we have so many ways and methods of finding out
what's the matter with us. And if there is anything wrong with us,
we should try to face it and clear it out.
We should not try to clear each other’s chakras, but our own.
Actually we do not pay attention to ourselves,
we start paying attention to others.
Moreover, I must say that Sahaja Yoga marriages
will be the most successful marriages. Have to be.
They may re-establish the institution of marriage
on very sound basis. There’s no doubt about it.
And those who’ll be married in Sahaja Yoga
will be really remarkably happy married couples.
But there will be an attack of the negativity on them
as soon as they get married.
Because it is
not a very happy thing for these negative forces,
to see that people are happily married.
And they would try their level best to bring all sorts of problems,
all sorts of complications in the beginning,
to see that these marriages are broken.
And when you start playing into their hands, you may
also be spoiling the chances of getting good realised souls to you,
because they would not accept such a situation.
If you have been quarrelling in the beginning also it’s not good,
because you go down in their estimation.
So you have to be very patient,
very soft and good to each other,
to see that you create an atmosphere of invitation
for these great souls to come on this Earth.
And if that is not so, then they will wait,
they will not incarnate,
because they don’t want to have parents
who are quarrelling, who are fighting, who are suspecting,
who are troubling each other.
Now, one has to know that Sahaja Yoga marriage has a precise reason.
It is not, you are marrying just out of fashion.
You are marrying because you want to have children,
who are realised souls on this Earth to come.
We give them a place, parentage to do that.
And if you do not understand the value of that marriage,
then it is better not to be married in Sahaja Yoga.
It’s better to spare the Sahaja Yoga!
There’s only one snag in Sahaja Yoga, is this,
that you are all born of the same Mother,
so you are all brothers and sisters in a way.
But when you are going to marry each other,
then this point becomes a little funny
that - how can a brother marry a sister?
Now, we can say like that, that I would say that,
it would be better if you marry not in the same community
but marry from somewhere else. At the most,
the Sydney Sahaja Yogi should marry a Melbourne Sahaja Yogini.
Some distance should be like that
so that it is kept like not brothers and sisters - should be better.
But I’ve seen when this happens there is more conflict,
because they still carry on with the idea
that they are from Melbourne and another from
Sydney.
Now the Sydney and Melbourne should not be a matter of conflict.
Because as soon as they start quarrelling they’ll say,
“Oh, you Melbournian, I know you are like that.”
And she'll say, "You Sydneyans, you are like that."
And immediately you become like that,
and you start quarrelling about it.
So you must know that you are not a Sydneyan or a Melbournian,
but you are nothing but a Sahaja Yogi.
And Sahaja Yogi has no caste, community
or any race, or any religion,
or also no bar of any nation.
Whatever nation you come from, you are a Sahaja Yogi,
you are a universal being. You are.
You can feel the vibrations of anyone sitting down here,
whether he is from Hawaii or from America doesn’t matter.
So, when you can feel about everyone, that means
you are no more belonging to any community
or any particular country, you are a universal being.
And that’s what we have to do:
we have to create more universal beings.
And to expedite that we want to get these great souls on this Earth.
So it’s a very important work. They have to be on this Earth,
because they are the great channels for this divine work.
Once they start descending on this Earth, the real ones,
it will all expedite. It will be such a great,
you don’t know, it will be such a great, sudden,
explosion of Sahaja Yoga.
You’ll be amazed how it can grow
faster with these people coming down.
And we should try to make such arrangements
that we get the real blessings of those people,
that they come down on this Earth. It’s very important.
So I would request you to think about the marriage
from a new angle and from new ideas
by which you can really understand the value,
the value of these marriages.
And then you make it a successful marriage,
and not a failure, a nonsense, of it.
That’s such a great simple thing to do,
because you are married before realised souls.
So there is no question of being
just married like other people are married, and then they,
they take a name-plate on their,
on their cars saying 'Just married',
and they go, they are going, to a divorce case.
There cannot be such a thing for Sahaja Yogis, it’s a serious thing.
If you are not serious enough about it better not marry.
If you have expectations about marriage, it is better not to marry.
It is better not to marry. Nobody is going to force you to marry.
Just say, "No, not at all, I’m not going to."
But if you are going to go on like this,
you are really be harming Sahaja Yoga in the worst possible way.
It is like stabbing Sahaja Yoga from the back.
So there is no need for you to get married,
in case you do not want to have it. On the contrary,
it will be better that there are many married couples
who can produce children,
and they can have those great people born to them.
But if you think that adjustment and all that it means
all kinds of these old ideas of married life,
it’s better that you do not get married.
It’s a new heavenly marriage, for which you should be prepared
to receive the beauty and the blessings,
and also the greatest of greatest,
the ultimate meaning of it.
I hope you will understand,
that Sahaja Yoga is emphazising on marriages,
and we do not believe in any asceticism,
the running away from family life,
we believe that family life is the most important thing.
We have to establish it very well on this Earth,
and that we have to see in these beautiful nests of divine love
that great souls are born, and we have to continue with it.
There's no escape from having a very good married life.
And I wish you, all of you,
that you will have a very good happy married life.
And those who are not marrying I wish them
that they also will have a very happy married life.
Now I have been married, I think thirty-sixth year
is this of my marriage today.
So many years have passed but still,
I still feel like a bride with my husband,
because really we have been very wise people to live like that.
And of course there are ups and downs,
but ultimately one feels very different about the whole thing.
He has sent a beautiful letter today,
thanking you all for your kindness shown to Me,
and for all the kindness you have shown to him.
So we should have the puja, this, today, as a Gruha Lakshmi.
You are worshipping Me as a Gruha Lakshmi in you,
and which is very essential also, to worship Me as a Gruha Lakshmi,
because you all have a problem with your Gruha Lakshmi.
That's the Left Nabhi. So I hope it will work out better for you,
and we’ll start with the puja.
After this short puja that we have,
then we’ll start with this Devi havan,
because this we have not been able to do so far,
and this is very important. We have to somehow or other manage it.
Today if possible, we should do thousand names,
would be a very good idea.
Both of you.
Who else is getting married?
You also? Let these two people.
You two come along.
Yogi: They may read three names.
We can make place for one couple to sit over here.
Can I get some more place?
SM: How can you sit there? You will spread something?
Have you got something to spread? No, no, no, no.
Better spread some more of these.
These are very handy things eh? They may have.
Yogi: Two more?
You can pull that. I think that’s a better idea.
Just now we are not going to sit there,
so you can pull all this out. Why not spread it here?
No, no, it’s alright. No, that’s okay.
This is better to pull this out.
Yogi: Don't push it, don't push this.
Let them lie it down Bill. Let them lie them and drag down.
Ok, just stand up Bill and we'll spread this over the whole lot.
Take it here.
SM: Now you all sit down.
For Modi you have to give him something below.
Come along, sit down.
Now, who else is there? She’s left. Right?
You can sit there. You can move there.
You see, just have that thing connected there.
You can move it, you see.
Y: And that's one point left.
SM: That’s sufficient now. That’s alright. Now you sit down.
It’s alright?
Now one more you want? Just leave it. Leave it.
Y: Move back a little bit.
Don't move that Tina.
Don't lean on it.
Can You manage?... not on the ground.
Yes, that’s better. This is better.
You spread it more like that. This is a better thing.
It's good now.
It's a short one. Not too long. Alright?
Alright.
First is Ganesha puja.
Tell the meaning.
They should know the meaning.
This is a...I have told him to, today, say it out.
Now this is what we were saying that Christ is described in short.
This is a very short description. And what He is actually
His all aspects have been described in short,
again in short, very much in short.
These few things he will be reading it and explaining it to you
while you just wash my Feet.
Now you organise it.
Y: Now here we worship the Lord Jesus,
in the name of Lord Ganesha.
He is supposed to be in totality,
the essence of all the principles. He is in totality.
SM: Principles, all the principles.
Y: All the principles of the universe.
SM: Tattwa.
Y: Tattwam asi, means
the totality of all the principles of the universe.
Then he is supposed to be the kartasi.
Kartasi means He is supposed to do
all the doings.
SM: The Doer.
It is He who does all the doings.
Then he says, "Twameva kevalam dhartasi" means He is the..
SM: Support.
Y: Supporter of all the things in the universe.
SM: He is the Support.
Y: Then He is the kevalam hartasi - harane.
SM: He is the One who takes away all the problems.
Y: He takes away all the problems,
He takes away all the problems of the universe.
SM: He's the One, He’s the sucker of all the problems of the whole.
Y: Then, then it is said, "Twameva sarvidam kalvidam Brahmasi" means
"He is the totality of the universe."
Brahma, Brahma.
SM: Brahma is this Brahma shakti you see,
Y:  All-pervading Energy. Pranav.
"He Himself is allpervading energy."
Twameva Sakshat Atmasi nityam. He is always-
SM: -present in you as the Spirit.
He resides you as Spirit in everything.
Y:Ritam vachmi satyam vachmi.
He always says the truth.
He always says, whatever He says..
SM: He is the truth.
Not "He says the truth", but "He is the truth."
Y: Ritam vachmi satyam vachmi.
Here he says that He is supposed to be -
He is supposed to be the Doer as we say, that means
the hearing is done by Him,
the speaking is also done by Him.
He is in the Shishya. Shishya means,
SM: In the disciples. In the disciple principle.
Y: Disciple principle is also the Lord Ganesha.
It is in the principle of teacher also,
is the principle of Lord Jesus.
It is also on all the directions that is east, west, north, south.
He exists in all the directions.
And since He exists in all the directions,
He is All-pervading,
everywhere, on the top, in the bottom, everywhere.
He says, "the entire
vangmay",
Vangmay means literature.
The entire literature is He, Himself.
He is the complete literature.
He is the complete ananda. Ananda means ‘joy’.
Brahma-mayas, ananda mayas Twam Brahma mayas
You are the One who is the All-pervading Power within us.
He is the All-pervading power within us.
Sat Chit Ananda dvitiyosi,
The Sat Chit Ananda means, dvitiyosi means,
You, You, nobody can compare You, to Your,
Your capacities to be Sat Chit Ananda.
Sat Chit Ananda means, Sat means truth, Chit means attention
and Ananda means joy. So it's a completion.
And nobody can be compared with you.
Twam Pratyaksham Brahmasi. You are in totality, existing Brahma.
The Creator.
Twam Dnyanamayo Vignyanamayosi.
You are the knowledge and You are the
Science of it, science of knowledge.
That means here he says, "When the whole world,
goes away,
is destroyed, it is He who remains.”
Sarvam jagadidam twattas-tishtati
When the whole body..No, “Tish thati” means "it stays".
The whole world stays because of You.
As long as you are there the world will stay.
Let him be. Let him be. That, that's also very...
Sit down, sit down, sit down.
Sarvam jagadidam twayi layam'eshyati.
When You are completely, the whole world is destroyed,
at that time also You are there. You are the witness.
Sarvam Jagadidam Twayi Pratiyety.
And everybody can only experience You and nothing else.
Everybody can experience, that experience is through Him.
If you are getting any experience of Divine it is because of Him.
Him, through Him, through Him.
Twam Bhumir-apo-nalo-nilo nabhah
He is the soil.
He is the, 'apo' means the 'jala tattwa',
means He is the water.
And He's the Akasha.
'Anala' means 'Agni', fire.
He is the fire. "Nilo nabhaha", means He is the Akasha.
He is the sky, ether.
He is the fire also.
All the elements.
Twam chatwari vak padani
These are also guided by Him.
There are, you see, four stages of your sound.
You see when they - para, pashanti, madhyama.
You see, there are four stages of your sound that starts from here.
First one from the nabhi, second one from here, Para,
pashanti, madhyama and vaikary.
Vaikary means from the sound here which we speak. Talk.
You see, the sound starts from here.
This is 'para'. Sound starts from para.
From here it starts, then it goes to pashanti.
In the heart it just pulsates.
But it is 'pashanti', means it is just watching.
Here it is 'madhyama'. It is in the centre.
Means it is doesn’t either watch, nor this thing.
And then, at the mouth part becomes eloquent.
So "all these four stages of the sound are governed by You".
Now, here  He has been described in a little different way:
He is beyond all the gunas, that means beyond all the virtues.
No, no, not gunas. 'Gunas means 'moods', moods, moods. Qualities.
You see, Tamogun, Rajogun and Sattvagun, He’s beyond that,
He's transcended. You see, for Him there’s nothing like sin.
Whatever He does is Divine.
Twam deha traya teetaha
You are beyond Your body.
You see that’s why He was resurrected.
Twam kala traya teeth
You are beyond the Time and beyond the death.
Twam Mooladhar stityosi nityam
Means the Mooladhara Chakra of the universe.
There He resides.
Twam Shakti trayat makaha
You are the three powers. All the powers.
Three powers, na? - 'Trayat makaha'
Means all these three powers: Mahalakshmi, Mahasaraswati, Mahakali.
Twam yogino dyayanti nityam
Means, "Yogis, means all the saints of the universe,
they always meditate upon You." And upon Him.
All the time.
'Nityam' means 'everytime'.
Twam Brahma. Means He is Brahma. He's the Creator.
He is Vishnu. He is the Sustainer. He’s the Protector also.
He is Rudra. He is the one who destroys.
He is the Indra.
Indra is the God of the Gods.
Agni, He is the fire.
He is the wind.
He is the sun, He is the moon.
Brahma bhoor swarom
He is the sound of God. Omkara.
Now here, how the Omkara has come out
through Him and how every aspect of Omkara
is He Himself.
He’s the assemblage of all that.
Ganaadim purva muchchaarya
Gana means all the, all the celestial beings on the left-hand side
are called as ganas, you see?
The leader of them is St. Michael.
He is even before them. He’s born even before them.
He’s even higher than them.
Varnaadim tadanantaram
‘Varana' means..
All the varanas are created after Him.
You see, this is what is Alpha and Omega,
that He is the first Word that is created,
and it is the last Word,
He's above the last Word that is created. Varana.
Anusvaraha paratarah
It’s very detailed. Anuswaraha.
You see there is a state after Realisation which is supposed to be,
above this, above Sahastrara, is Ardha Bindu Sthiti,
Bindu Sthiti and Valaya Sthiti.
So from Bindu Sthiti, all the sthitis,
all the stages, from Bindu Sthiti onwards,
there are something like fourteen stages above,
all the stages are governed by Him.
Ardha Bindu Sthiti is also Him. The first stage of Ardha Bindu.
Taarena ruddham
The One who gives you salvation.
Etattava anusvaruupam
You see the vibrations. I don’t know if you can see them?
It looks like a comma, 'anusvarah' is 'commas'.
So that's how You reside like little, little commas.
If you can see them.
It's a comma of light.
Gakara purva roopam
You see, the complete Omkara is: first is Gakarah, is Ganapati. Ga.
"Ga-karah purva-rupam". The first is,
you see, You take the form of Ganesha in the beginning,
“purva-rupam”, Ganesha is in them (vibrations).
Then You take the form of Omkara.
Akaro madhyama rupam
Anuswarash-chantya rupam
And the last is when You become just a comma.
Anusvarash chantyaroopam, bindurut tararoopam
Nadah sandhanam, sanhita sandihi, saisha Ganesha vidya
If you have to learn Him from the sound, then,
then that knowledge, that, the knowledge of learning
through the sound, is known as 'Shri Ganesha vidya'.
Sound is mantras, you see. To know Him through the mantras,
you have to learn the Ganesha-vidya, is the knowledge of Jesus.
If you have to know the mantras, you have to know
through the knowledge that the whole science is called,
is 'The knowledge of Ganesha'.
Or you can call the 'vidya of Ganesha',
means the technique of Ganesha.
And if you have to know how the mantras work out,
this is the science. The science is called as Ganesha-vidya,
is all His science.
Then the rishi of that, that is the master,
the teacher of that vidya, that knowledge,
is supposed to be the Ganaka-Rishihi
It is His name: 'Ganaka-Rishihi’.
That’s why He’s called as Ganaka, Ganaka-Rishihi.
That’s why He’s called, because He’s the master of that.
He’s the master of the art of mantras, the sounds.
Then Vishwa Gayatri Chandaha, means He is the master of Gayatri.
It’s a mantra, Gayatri is one of the mantras, you see.
And it is on the right-hand side.
Chandah is a...
Music, music of all the mantras.
Music of all the mantras.
The rhythm, rhythm.
The rhythm of the mantras.
You see, you have to say mantras with a certain rhythm,
and He’s the rhythm.
Of all the mantras.
Now the God Himself is again Ganesha,
that is the Lord Jesus.
God Himself for all this performation, He's again Shri Ganesha.
Ganapatir-devata
Om Gam Ganapataye namah
How to initiate.
What do you say when it should awaken?
How to awaken this deity.
For that the mantra has been given all here.
That mantra is like this: Om gam Ganapataye namaha
This is the mantra for awakening this Deity.
Om gam Ganapataye namaha
Then there is a prayer for Him.
Then subsequently, then two stanzas is a prayer for Him,
prayer for this God. I will just recite it.
Ekadantaya vidmahe, vakratundaya dhimahi
Tanno danti prachodayaat
Ekadantam Chatur hastam
Pasham ankush dharinam
How this God is. How? How does He behave?
You see the Ganesha.
How is His description?
That description has been made over here.
He is having one..
One tooth.
Because with another one He writes.
And He's got the trunk.
Pasham ankusha dharinam
Is one of the loops.
You see, He controls you with a loop.
If you try to misbehave then he puts a loop around you,
and pulls you back.
Ankush means is a kind of an instrument.
Ankusha is that you use it on the elephant
to control.
No, no, when you use it on the elephant.
On the top, when you sit, in that particular point.
It’s a ‘goad’
But it is a very..it’s a guiding instrument.
Ekadantam chatur hastam
pasham ankusha dharinam
All these things He is having.
Radam cha varadam Hastayhi
“Varada Hastha”, means He is offering you a hand
of protection.
bibhranam mushaka dvajam
A mouse is His carrier, is a symbol.
I mean, it’s something, a very humble animal.
Very humble. His mouse,
for Him and for Christ also, the donkey,
which is the humblest animal.
Raktam lambodaram
shurpakarnakam raktavaasasam
Means He wears the red clothes.
He likes to wear the red clothes,
the one which Mataji has been wearing just now. The red thing.
Red clothes.
Rakta gandhanu liptangam
This particular on forehead. Rakta.
Means it should be the red one.
Even on the body He would like to put the red saffron and red things
At least on his chakras we should put red.
'Rakta-pushpaihi supujitam', means He likes the red flowers very much.
That's why on that day you had brought so many red flowers
on the other day for the puja.
So it is 'supujitam', means if you want to do an ideal puja,
‘Supujitam’ means, if you want to do an ideal puja,
you have to have the red flowers for Him.
Bhaktanu kampinam Devam, jagat karanam achyutam
For the devotees,
for the devotees He has tremendous compassion.
Tremendous compassion.
And the compassion is for the good of the whole universe.
The compassion which flows through Him is for the universal good.
Avir bhutam chya shrishshtyadau prakrutehe purushat param
He comes on the Earth everytime,
to do manifestation, into the human beings,
I mean to give emancipation to the human beings.
and that's how He manifests even as a human being.
See!
Evam dya yati yo nityam sa yogi yoginam varaha
So the one, the yogi, who recites,
The yogi, not an unknown person. No,no! A Yogi.
Means anybody going to church,
is not a yogi.
That's not a yogi. See an yogi...
The connection through which you know the Divine,
is supposed to be a yogi.
Yoga.
You see, “yena jayate” means “by which you know”.
So, the connection through which you know the Divine
is known as yoga.
Now, such yogis,
such yogis worship this Lord Ganesha and the Lord Jesus
in this fashion all along by meditation.
Only the yogis, again!
And they meditate. They worship by meditation,
not by chanting mantras like we just know.
Namo Vratapataye, namo Ganapataye, Namah pramatha pataye
Namastestu Lambodaraya, Ekadantaya Vighnanashine,
Shri Shivasutaya Shri Varada murtaya namoh namaha
Here, such Divine personality,
I bow to You,
Bow to You,
always and in all purity I bow to You
That's what it says. Everytime...
Because He's purity.
Everytime, for any good cause I bow to You
and You are the son of the Spirit.
That's what it has been said. ‘Shivasutaya’ means -
The Son of Shiva.
He is born out of Shiva. Shiva is the Spirit of the universe.
You know Shiva, You know.
Shri Varadam murtaye namoh namaha
You are the One..
You are the statue of blessings.
Ki Jay! This is just the abridged form.
Most abridged form. There are only eight slokas.
Eight stanzas, very small.
Let's go. This is nothing to understand Him.
But just this is said, is just in the beginning, to make it...
You've got this book in English?
No, Mother.
No?
You see, the Gods, you see.
You are also Gods now because you have all the powers -
Prayed to Vishnu to create a Power
by which all these horrible devils can be destroyed.
And then a Goddess was created.
This story is better to hear.
Mother in the Devi Mahatmyam
there's a description of the concentration
of the three Deities and out of the concentration of light
comes the Devi. Is that the same story?
That is exactly the same story.
Then we have it in the Devi Mahatmyam. It’s in English
You’ve got Devi Bhagwat?
No, Devi Mahatmyam.
You have got it?
We've got it at home, yes.
I wish you had read it. Alright.
So I just now then recite the whole thing from timing.
We know the story, Mother.
You know the story?
Brian has read the story to the puja which we had...
Alright, again say the mantras.
Raul Bai is very particular about the ritual to be done properly!
I said the brain should be alright, first of all.
If you go on doing everything properly, doing this, do this…
First of all ego must go, otherwise what’s the use?
There is some yoghurt in that?
How many they are?
So get up now.
And you have to just sort of open it. Please you also get up. Alright?
Now take it.
Make it double.
Just double it up. Alright?
You’ve been working very hard, I must say, really!
You have been really working very hard.
To have two pujas is too much.
You see, the raktagandha. He likes to be
covered with raktagandha, you see.
This is a kind of a tree we get called as raktagandha,
which is like the sandalwood but is red-coloured.
And He likes it to be all the time covered with it.
That’s why I have to cover Myself,
cover this portion where He resides.
Raktagandha.
“Rakta” means blood, and “gandha” means this particular
type of a sandalwood it is, which is of the red colour,
which is rubbed and is put here.
This is typically Bali? Or Australian?
So much vibrations always. Just I’m doing it.
You have said all the mantras, she says now. She’s finished.
Let’s see who gets the best!
Where is Barbara?
Come along, take your photograph.
She's got my camera Mother.
Let her have one.
Let’s see now, this will decide.
See, your photographs also depend on your
state of mind, very much so.
Done?
Alright? May God bless you! Does he want? Come on.
You can come closer, for my feet.
Come along, you have to do my feet also.
Done? Over?
Let her take it. She wants to.
All the best, Mother. All the best.
For the sanctity of marriage. May God bless you all.
To give you the full idea of sanctity of marriage.
Let’s start doing it.
Now, you all have to get up from here
and some people who are come for the first time
should come forward.
Who have come for the first time, should come forward.
And you can also take a stool for yourself or something, or a chair.